---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-15T18:38:48.264Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-15T18:26:38.286Z'
title: Lighting
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-15-lighting.md
published: true
url: lighting/index.html
_type: Article

---
# Lighting

## Turn on all interior lights

Turn on all of the interior lights if the homeowner has not yet done this. It may seem ok to turn on just the lights in the room you are currently shooting and then turning them on as you enter each additional room, but you will have several rooms in the background of your photos that need to be lit and it's better to go ahead and have them all on to avoid dark background rooms.

For daytime exteriors, turn off exterior lights.

## Window blinds - sometimes open, sometimes closed

Leave nice blinds down and open at a slight angle. If they are not nice blinds, and the window framing itself is decent, pull the blinds all the way up, as out of site as possible.

## Windows in the photo

When a window is in the shot, you want the windows and blinds to be:

* open if there is a good view

* judgement call if the view is neutral

* closed if the view is poor 

## Windows not in photo

For photos where there are windows in the room but those windows will not be in the photo, close the blinds or curtains when available to block as much window light as possible.

**HELPFUL TIP: Yellow vs. blue light (white balance)** The lights inside your home want to cast a yellow light onto the picture, and the light from the outside wants to cast a blue light. When these two colors are both present in a photograph (not necessarily in person), it is typically not pleasing to the eye. So whichever one is dominant in the scene, you want to minimize the other. This is not a perfect solution, but it makes a difference, a huge difference in some cases. In professional photography speak, this situation is what is commonly referred to as the "white balance."

**QUESTION: In the same room, some lamps have the classic bulbs that give off a yellow hue, while others are using the newer fluorescent bulbs which give off a bluer hue. What do you do when there are two or more kinds of light bulbs being used in the same photo?**

_ANSWER: If there are two kinds of lights in a room (tungsten yellow, and fluorescent blue) then see if you can get away with only using one and turning the others off. If there is a lot of window light, then try using just the fluorescent blue since that matches more the quality of outdoor light than tungsten yellow light. Or perhaps the windows let in so much light that you can turn off all of the interior lights, even the fluorescents. If there is not a lot of window light, try only using the tungsten yellow light and turning off the fluorescents._

****

********